B. Robot Worker Experimentation
Starting with the code given in the Search Exercise 5 notebook create and investigate your own robot
worker scenario. A relatively small modification of the given scenario is sufficient. But to obtain a high
grade you will need to introduce some significant novelty. Take care not to increase the complexity of the
problem too much (If there are too many choices, the algorithms may fail to solve even apparently simple
problems.)
Report sections and associated marks:
B1. Design and describe a robot worker scenario.
 [6 marks]
B2. Describe and implement a heuristic suitable for your scenario.
 [4 marks]
B3. Investigate the performance of a variety of search algorithms when applied to your robot worker
scenario, and present results in table form.
 [4 marks]
B4. Give key findings as concise bullet points.
 [4 marks]
[40 marks total]
Read on for further details, suggestions and tips.
2
What and How to Investigate
In order to obtain high marks, you will need to carry out a thorough investigation of search algorithms within
the limitations of the search algorithm software with which you have been provided. You should aim to cover the
following different types of search algorithm and options, as well as different levels of difficulty of the problem
itself:
• Different basic search algorithms
– breadth-first,
– depth-first, with fixed action choice ordering,
– depth-first, with randomised action choice ordering,
– best first,
– A*.
• Different heuristics for the informed search algorithms (best first and A*). These can be based on the
ones given in Exercise 7, or you could design your own. To obtain the most credit for your investigation
heuristics you would need to devise heuristics that are applicable to the whole family of sliding block
puzzles that can be formulated in terms of the SlidingBlocksPuzzle class, not just ones that work only
for a particular problem (such as the simple ones given in the Exercise 7 Colab notebook).
• Whether or not loop checking is used.
• Puzzles of different levels of difficulty. (Think about what factors may affect ‘difficulty’.)
Note that the mark scheme for part A1 allows for some flexibility in where you put your effort. You could
concentrate more on conducting a wide range of test cases, or you could try to develop a good general heuristic
for this kind of puzzle.